Welcome.
This week I will teach you
N-gram language models.
This will allow you to write your first
program that generates text on its own.
>> First I'll go over what's an N-gram is.
Then you'll estimate the conditional
probability of an N-gram from your text
corpus.
Now, what is an N-gram?
Simply put,
an N-gram is a sequence of words.
Note that it's more than just a set of
words because the word order matters.
N-grams can also be characters or
other elements.
But for now,
you'll be focusing on sequences of words.
When you process the Corpus
the punctuation is treated like words.
But all other special characters
such as codes, will be removed.
Let's look at an example.
I'm happy because I'm learning.
Unigrams for this Corpus are a set of all
unique single words appearing in the text.
For example,
the word I appears in the Corpus twice but
is included only once in the unigram sets.
The prefix uni stands for one.
Bigrams are all sets of two words that
appear side by side in the Corpus.
Again, the bigram I am can be
found twice in the text but
is only included once in the bigram sets.
The prefix bi means two.
Also notice that the words must
appear next to each other to be
considered a bigram.
Another example of bigram is am happy.
On the other hand, the sequence I happy
does not belong to the bigram sets as that
phrase does not appear in the Corpus.
I happy is omitted,
even though both individual words, I and
happy, appear in the text.
Trigrams represent unique triplets of
words that appear in the sequence together
in the Corpus.
The prefix tri means three.
Here's some notation that you're
going to use going forward.
If you have a corpus of
text that has 500 words,
the sequence of words can be denoted
as w1, w2, w3 all the way to w500.
The Corpus length is
denoted by the variable m.
Now for a subsequence of that vocabulary,
if you want to refer to just the sequence
of words from word 1 to word 3,
then you can denote it as w subscript 1,
superscript 3.
To refer to the last three
words of the Corpus you can use
the notation w subscript
m minus 2 superscript m.
Next, you'll estimate the probability
of an N-gram from a text corpus.
Let's start with unigrams.
For example, in this Corpus,
I'm happy because I'm learning,
the size of the Corpus is m = 7.
The counts of unigram I is equal to 2.
So the probability is 2 / 7.
For unigram happy,
the probability is equal to 1/7.
The probability of a unigram shown
here as w can be estimated by taking
the count of how many times were
w appears in the Corpus and
then you divide that by
the total size of the Corpus m.
This is similar to the word probability
concepts you used in previous weeks.
Now, let's calculate
the probability of bigrams.
Let's start with an example and
then I'll show you the general formula.
In the example I'm happy
because I'm learning,
what is the probability of the word am
occurring if the previous word was I?
It would just be the count of the bigrams,
I am / the count of the unigram I.
So you get the count of the bigrams
I am / the counts of the unigram I.
In this example the bigram
I am appears twice and
the unigram I appears twice as well.
So the conditional probability
of am appearing given that
I appeared immediately
before is equal to 2/2.
In other words, the probability
of the bigram I am is equal to 1.
For the bigram I happy,
the probability is equal to 0 because that
sequence never appears in the Corpus.
Finally, bigram I'm learning
has a probability of 1/2.
That's because the word
am followed by the word
learning makes up one half of
the bigrams in your Corpus.
Here is a general expression for
the probability of bigram.
The bigram is represented by
the word x followed by the word y.
So the probability of the word y
appearing immediately after the word x
is the conditional probability
of word y given x.
The conditional probability of y given x
can be estimated as the counts
of the bigram x, y and
then you divide that by the count
of all bigrams starting with x.
This can be simplified to
the counts of the bigram x,
y divided by the count of all unigrams x.
This last step only works if x
is followed by another word.
Let's calculate the probability
of some trigrams.
Using the same example from before,
the probability of the word
happy following the phrase I am
is calculated as 1 divided by
the number of occurrences of the phrase
I am in the Corpus which is 2.
The probability of the trigram or
consecutive sequence of three words is the
probability of the third word appearing
given that the previous two words
already appeared in the correct order.
This is the conditional
probability of the third word
given that the previous two
words occurred in the text.
The conditional probability of the third
word given the previous two words
is the count of all three words appearing
/ the count of all the previous two
words appearing in the correct sequence.
Note that the notation for
the count of all three words appearing
is written as the previous two
words denoted by w subscript 1
superscript 2 separated by a space and
then followed by w subscript 3.
So this is just the counts of the whole
trigram written as a bigram followed
by a unigram.
What about if you want to
consider any number n?
Let's generalize the formula
to N-grams for any number n.
The probability of a word
wN following the sequence
w1 to wN- 1 is estimated as
the counts of N-grams w1 to
wN / the counts of N-gram
prefix w1 to wN- 1.
Notice here that the counts
of the N-gram forwards
w1 to wN is written as
count of w subscripts 1
superscript N- 1 and
then space w subscript N.
This is equivalent to C of w
subscript 1 superscript N.
By this point, you've seen N-grams along
with specific examples of unigrams,
bigrams and trigrams.
You've also calculated their probability
from a corpus by counting their
occurrences.
That's great work.
>> Now, you know what N-grams are and
how they can be used to compute
the probability of the next word.
Next, you'll learn to use it to compute
probabilities of whole sentences.